Add PowerPoint partial documents support documentation (#1619)
MicrosoftDocs/VBA-Docs: powerpoint/How-to/work-with-partial-documents.md

---
title: Work with Partial Documents
keywords: vbapp10.chm583138
f1_keywords:
- vbapp10.chm583138
ms.prod: powerpoint
ms.date: 08/02/2022
ms.author: ononder
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

> # Work with Partial Documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Work with partial documents
```
Sentence case in headings.

> When you open a presentation with content that is large in size, PowerPoint may serve the document in parts as partial documents. This allows for documents to be opened, edited, and collaborated upon quickly, while the larger media parts (e.g., videos), continue to load in the background. Similarly, since media is handled separately from the rest of the document, collaboration is smoother when media is inserted during a collaboration session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you open a presentation with content that is large in size, PowerPoint may serve the document in parts as partial documents. This allows you to open, edit, and collaborate on documents quickly, while the larger media parts (e.g., videos), continue to load in the background. Similarly, since media is handled separately from the rest of the document, collaboration is smoother when media is inserted during a collaboration session.
```

> Because certain content can be deferred initially, some actions can't be taken on that content until the deferred content (e.g., video) is loaded. Additionally, there are certain actions like Save As, Export to Video, etc. that won’t function until all the deferred content are downloaded. User initiated operations will display UI informing the user of download progress, but that’s not possible for programmatic operations.  If you programmatically attempt to call an API to execute an action in these cases, it will fail with the following error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because certain content can be deferred initially, some actions can't be taken until the deferred content is loaded. Additionally, there are certain actions like Save As, Export to Video, etc. that won’t function until all the deferred content are downloaded. If you initiate one of these operations, PowerPoint will display UI informing you of the download progress, but that’s not possible for programmatic operations. If you programmatically attempt to call an API to execute an action while content is still downloading, it will fail.
```

```
Run-time error '-2147188128 (80048260)':
<object> (unknown member) : This method isn't supported until the presentation is fully downloaded. Visit this URL for more information: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2172228
```

> ## Understanding the Fully Downloaded State

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Understand the fully downloaded state
```
Newer guidelines recommend you don't gerundize the leading verb in a heading. This is for localization and SEO. There's quite a lot of gerunding verbs in headings in msft docs, but I change them as I see them and fix in all new content.

> To understand if a presentation is fully downloaded programmatically, you may query [Presentation.IsFullyDownloaded](~/api/PowerPoint.IsFullyDownloaded.md) property before calling any of the impacted APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify if a presentation is fully downloaded programmatically, you can query [Presentation.IsFullyDownloaded](~/api/PowerPoint.IsFullyDownloaded.md) property before you call any of the impacted APIs.
```

```vb
If ActivePresentation.IsFullyDownloaded Then

>     MsgBox "Everything is downloaded"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    MsgBox "Presentation download is complete."
```

Else

>     MsgBox "Not fully downloaded"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    MsgBox "PowerPoint is still downloading the presentation."
```
For localization, be specific.

End If
```

> ## Handling Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Error handling
```

 You may also add some error handling to capture the failure and retry the operation once the presentation is fully downloaded. If the error value is `-2147188128` or `0x80048260`, the operation has failed because the presentation is not fully downloaded.

> **Err.Number** can be used as a key to identify these failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use **Err.Number** as a key to identify these failures, as show in the following example.
```

```vb
Sub TestCopySlide()
    On Error GoTo eh    
    ActivePresentation.Slides(1).Copy    
    Exit Sub
eh:
    If Err.Number = -2147188128 Then

>         MsgBox "Cannot copy because the presentation is not fully downloaded"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        MsgBox "Cannot copy because the presentation is not fully downloaded."
```

    Else

>         MsgBox "Failed due to reason other than incomplete parts: " & Err.Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        MsgBox "Failure due to a reason other than incomplete download: " & Err.Description.
```
